Windows/Security: update passwordless-strategy.md (#3973)
MicrosoftDocs/windows-itpro-docs: windows/security/identity-protection/hello-for-business/passwordless-strategy.md

ms.topic: article
localizationpriority: medium
ms.date: 08/20/2018
ms.reviewer:
---
# Passwordless Strategy

## Four steps to password freedom

Over the past few years, Microsoft has continued their commitment to enabling a world without passwords. At Microsoft Ignite 2017, we shared our four-step approach to password-less.
![Passwordless approach](images/four-steps-passwordless.png)

### 1. Develop a password replacement offering
Before you move away from passwords, you need something to replace them. With Windows 10, Microsoft introduced Windows Hello for Business, a strong, hardware protected two-factor credential that enables single sign-on to Azure Active Directory and Active Directory.

> Deploying Windows Hello for Business is the first step towards password-less. Windows Hello for Business deployed coexists nicely with existing password-based security. Users are likely to use Windows Hello for Business because of its convenience, especially when combined with biometrics. However, some workflows and applications may still need passwords. This early stage is about implementing an alternative and getting users used to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploying Windows Hello for Business is the first step towards a passwordless environment. Windows Hello for Business coexists nicely with existing password-based security. Users are likely to use Windows Hello for Business because of its convenience, especially when combined with biometrics. However, some workflows and applications may still need passwords. This early stage is about implementing an alternative and getting users used to it.
```

### 2. Reduce user-visible password surface area

> With Windows Hello for Business and passwords coexisting in your environment, the next step towards password-less is to reduce the password surface. The environment and workflows need to stop asking for passwords. The goal of this step is to achieve a state where the user knows they have a password, but they never use it. This state helps decondition users from providing a password any time a password prompt shows on their computer. This is how passwords are phished. Users who rarely, if at all, use their password are unlikely to provide it. Password prompts are no longer the norm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Windows Hello for Business and passwords coexisting in your environment, the next step is to reduce the password surface. The environment and workflows need to stop asking for passwords. The goal of this step is to achieve a state where the user knows they have a password, but they never use it. This state helps decondition users from providing a password any time a password prompt shows on their computer. This is how passwords are phished. Users who rarely, if at all, use their password are unlikely to provide it. Password prompts are no longer the norm.
```

> ### 3. Transition into a password-less deployment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 3. Transition into a passwordless deployment
```

> Once the user-visible password surface has been eliminated, your organization can begin to transition those users into a password-less world. A world where:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the user-visible password surface has been eliminated, your organization can begin to transition those users into a passwordless world. A world where:
```

  - the user never types their password
  - the user never changes their password
  - the user does not know their password

In this world, the user signs in to Windows 10 using Windows Hello for Business and enjoys single sign-on to Azure and Active Directory resources. If the user is forced to authenticate, their authentication uses Windows Hello for Business.

### 4. Eliminate passwords from the identity directory

> The final step of the password-less story is where passwords simply do not exist. At this step, identity directories no longer persist any form of the password. This is where Microsoft achieves the long-term security promise of a truly password-less environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The final step of the passwordless story is where passwords simply do not exist. At this step, identity directories no longer persist any form of the password. This is where Microsoft achieves the long-term security promise of a truly passwordless environment.
```

## Methodology

> The four steps to password-less provides a overall view of how Microsoft envisions the road to password-less. But the road to password-less is frequently traveled and derailed by many. The scope of work is vast and filled with many challenges and frustrations. Nearly everyone wants the instant gratification of password-less, but can easily become overwhelmed in any of the steps. You are not alone and Microsoft understands. While there are many ways to accomplish password-less, here is one recommendation based on several years of research, investigation, and customer conversations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Four steps to password freedom provides an overall view of how Microsoft envisions the road to eliminating passwords.  But this road is frequently traveled and derailed by many. The scope of work is vast and filled with many challenges and frustrations. Nearly everyone wants the instant gratification of achieving a passwordless environment, but can easily become overwhelmed in any of the steps. You are not alone and Microsoft understands. While there are many ways to accomplish password-less, here is one recommendation based on several years of research, investigation, and customer conversations.
```

### Prepare for the Journey

> The road to password-less is a journey. The duration of that journey varies from each organization. It is important for IT decision makers to understand the criteria that influences the length of the journey.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The road to being passwordless is a journey. The duration of that journey varies from each organization. It is important for IT decision makers to understand the criteria that influences the length of the journey.
```

> The most intuitive answer is the size of the organization, and that would be correct. However, what exactly determines size. One way to break down the size of the organization is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most intuitive answer is the size of the organization, and that would be correct. However, what exactly determines size? One way to break down the size of the organization is:
```

> The most intuitive answer is the size of the organization, and that would be correct. However, what exactly determines size? One way to break down the size of the organization is by creating a summary of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The most intuitive answer is the size of the organization, and that would be correct. However, what exactly determines size? One way to break down the size of the organization is by creating a summary of the:
```

- Number of departments
- Organization or department hierarchy
- Number and type of applications and services
- Number of work personas

- Organization's IT structure

#### Number of departments
The number of departments within an organization varies. Most organizations have a common set of departments such as executive leadership, human resources, accounting, sales, and marketing. Other organizations will have those departments and additional ones such research and development or support. Small organizations may not segment their departments this explicitly while larger ones may. Additionally, there may be sub-departments, and sub-departments of those sub-departments as well.

> You need to know all the departments within your organization and you need to know which departments use computers and which do not. It is fine if a department does not use computer (probably rare, but acceptable). This is one less department with which you need to concern yourself. Nevertheless, ensure this department is in your list and you have assessed it is not applicable for password-less.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You need to know all the departments within your organization and you need to know which departments use computers and which do not. It is fine if a department does not use computers (probably rare, but acceptable). This is one less department with which you need to concern yourself. Nevertheless, ensure this department is in your list and you have assessed it is not applicable for password-less.
```

> You need to know all the departments within your organization and you need to know which departments use computers and which do not. It is fine if a department does not use computers (probably rare, but acceptable). This is one less department with which you need to concern yourself. Nevertheless, ensure this department is in your list and you have assessed it is not applicable for password-less.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to know all the departments within your organization and you need to know which departments use computers and which do not. It is fine if a department does not use computers (probably rare, but acceptable). This is one less department with which you need to concern yourself. Nevertheless, ensure this department is in your list and you have assessed it is not applicable.
```

> Your count of the departments must be thorough and accurate, as well as knowing the stakeholders for those departments that will you and your staff on the road to password-less. Realistically, many of us lose sight of our organization chart and how it grows or shrinks over time. This is why you need to inventory all of them. Also, do not forget to include external departments such as vendors or federated partners. If your organizations goes password-less, but partners continue to use passwords and then access your corporate resources, you should know about it and include them in your password-less strategy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your count of the departments must be thorough and accurate, as well as knowing the stakeholders for those departments that will put you and your staff on the road to password-less. Realistically, many of us lose sight of our organizational chart and how it grows or shrinks over time. This is why you need to inventory all of them. Also, do not forget to include external departments such as vendors or federated partners. If your organizations goes password-less, but partners continue to use passwords and then access your corporate resources, you should know about it and include them in your password-less strategy.
```

> Your count of the departments must be thorough and accurate, as well as knowing the stakeholders for those departments that will put you and your staff on the road to password-less. Realistically, many of us lose sight of our organizational chart and how it grows or shrinks over time. This is why you need to inventory all of them. Also, do not forget to include external departments such as vendors or federated partners. If your organizations goes password-less, but partners continue to use passwords and then access your corporate resources, you should know about it and include them in your password-less strategy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your count of the departments must be thorough and accurate, as well as knowing the stakeholders for those departments that will put you and your staff on the  passwordless road. Realistically, many of us lose sight of our organizational chart and how it grows or shrinks over time. This is why you need to inventory all of them. Also, do not forget to include external departments such as vendors or federated partners. If your organizations goes password-less, but partners continue to use passwords and then access your corporate resources, you should know about it and include them in your passwordless strategy.
```

#### Organization or department hierarchy

> Organization and department hierarchy is the management layers within the departments or the organization as a whole. How the device is used, what applications and how they are used most likely differ between each department, but also within the structure of the department. To determine the correct password-less strategy, you need to know these differences across your organization. An executive leader is likely to use their device differently than a member of middle management in the sales department. Both of those use cases are likely different than how an individual contributor in the customer service department uses their device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Organization and department hierarchy is the management layers within the departments or the organization as a whole. How the device is used, what applications and how they are used most likely differ between each department, but also within the structure of the department. To determine the correct passwordless strategy, you need to know these differences across your organization. An executive leader is likely to use their device differently than a member of middle management in the sales department. Both of those user cases are probably different to how an individual contributor in the customer service department uses their device.
```

#### Number and type of applications and services

> The number of applications within an organization is simply astonishing and rarely is there one centralized list that is accurate. Applications and services are the most critical item in your password-less assessment. Applications and services take considerable effort to move to a different type of authentication. That is not to say changing policies and procedures is not a daunting task, but there is something to be said of updating a company's set of standard operating procedure and security policies compared to changing 100 lines (or more) of authentication code in the critical path of your internally developed CRM application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The number of applications within an organization is simply astonishing and rarely is there one centralized list that is accurate. Applications and services are the most critical item in your passwordless assessment. Applications and services take considerable effort to move to a different type of authentication. That is not to say changing policies and procedures is not a daunting task, but there is something to be said of updating a company's set of standard operating procedure and security policies compared to changing 100 lines (or more) of authentication code in the critical path of your internally developed CRM application.
```

> Capturing the number of applications used is easier once you have the departments, their hierarchy, and their stakeholders. In this approach, you should have an organized list of departments and the hierarchy in each. You can now associate the applications that are used by all levels within each department. You'll also want to document whether the application is internally developed or commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS). If the later, document the manufacture and the version. Also, do not forget web-based applications or services when inventorying applications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Capturing the number of applications used is easier once you have the departments, their hierarchy, and their stakeholders. In this approach, you should have an organized list of departments and the hierarchy in each. You can now associate the applications that are used by all levels within each department. You'll also want to document whether the application is internally developed or commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS). If the later, document the manufacturer and the version. Also, do not forget web-based applications or services when inventorying applications.
```

#### Number of work personas
Work personas is where the three previous efforts converge. You know the departments, the organizational levels within each department, the numbers of applications used by each, respectively, and the type of application. From this you want to create a work persona.

> A work persona classifies a category of user, title or role (individual contributor, manager, middle manager, etc), within a specific department to a collection of applications used. There is a high possibility and probability that you will have many work personas. These work personas will become units of work an you will refer to them in documentation and in meetings. You need to give them a name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A work persona classifies a category of user, title or role (individual contributor, manager, middle manager, etc.), within a specific department to a collection of applications used. There is a high possibility and probability that you will have many work personas. These work personas will become units of work an you will refer to them in documentation and in meetings. You need to give them a name.
```

> A work persona classifies a category of user, title or role (individual contributor, manager, middle manager, etc.), within a specific department to a collection of applications used. There is a high possibility and probability that you will have many work personas. These work personas will become units of work an you will refer to them in documentation and in meetings. You need to give them a name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A work persona classifies a category of user, title or role (individual contributor, manager, middle manager, etc.), within a specific department to a collection of applications used. There is a high probability that you will have many work personas. These work personas will become units of work and you will refer to them in documentation and in meetings. You need to give them a name.
```

Give your personas easy and intuitive name like Abby Accounting, Mark Marketing, or Sue Sales. If the organization levels are common across departments then decide on a first name that represents the common levels in a department. For example, Abby could be the first name of an individual contributor in any given department, while the first name Sue could represent someone from middle management in any given department. Additionally, you can use suffixes such as (I, II, Senior, etc.) to further define departmental structure for a given persona.

> Ultimately, create a naming convention that does not require your stakeholders and partners to read through a long list of tables or that needs a secret decoder ring. Also, if possible, try to keep the references as names of people. After all, you are talking about a person, who is in that department, who uses that specific software.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ultimately, create a naming convention that does not require your stakeholders and partners to read through a long list of tables or a secret decoder ring. Also, if possible, try to keep the references as names of people. After all, you are talking about a person, who is in that department, who uses that specific software.
```

> Ultimately, create a naming convention that does not require your stakeholders and partners to read through a long list of tables or a secret decoder ring. Also, if possible, try to keep the references as names of people. After all, you are talking about a person, who is in that department, who uses that specific software.

Author: Do you think this could be a practical improvement of comprehension, or is the last sentence better as it already is?
```suggestion
Ultimately, create a naming convention that does not require your stakeholders and partners to read through a long list of tables or a secret decoder ring. Also, if possible, try to keep the references as names of people. After all, you are talking about a person who is in that department and who uses that specific software.
```

#### Organization's IT structure

> IT department structures can vary more than the organization. Some IT departments are centralized while others are decentralized. Also, the road to password-less will likely have you interacting with the client authentication team, the deployment team, the security team, the PKI team, the Active Directory team, the cloud team, and the list continues. Most of these teams will be your partner on your journey to password-less. Ensure there is a password-less stakeholder on each of these teams and that the effort is understood and funded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IT department structures can vary more than the organization. Some IT departments are centralized while others are decentralized. Also, the road to being passwordless will probably have you interacting with the client authentication team, the deployment team, the security team, the PKI team, the Active Directory team, the cloud team, and the list continues. Most of these teams will be your partner on your journey to being passwordless. Ensure there is a passwordless stakeholder on each of these teams, and that the effort is understood and funded.
```

#### Assess your Organization
You have a ton of information. You have created your work personas, you identified your stakeholders throughout the different IT groups. Now what?

> By now you can see why its a journey and not a weekend project. You need to investigate user-visible password surfaces for each of your work personas. Once you identified the password surfaces, you need to mitigate them. Resolving some password surfaces are simple-- meaning a solution already exists in the environment and its a matter of moving users to it. Resolution to some passwords surfaces may exist, but are not deployed in your environment. That resolution results in a project that must be planned, tested, and then deployed. That is likely to span multiple IT departments with multiple people, and potentially one or more distributed systems. Those types of projects take time and need dedicated cycles. This same sentiment is true with in-house software development. Even with agile development methodologies, changing the way someone authenticates to an application is critical. Without the proper planning and testing, it has the potential to severely impact productivity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By now you can see why it's a journey and not a weekend project. You need to investigate user-visible password surfaces for each of your work personas. Once you identified the password surfaces, you need to mitigate them. Resolving some password surfaces are simple - meaning a solution already exists in the environment and it's a matter of moving users to it. Resolution to some passwords surfaces may exist, but are not deployed in your environment. That resolution results in a project that must be planned, tested, and then deployed. That is likely to span multiple IT departments with multiple people, and potentially one or more distributed systems. Those types of projects take time and need dedicated cycles. This same sentiment is true with in-house software development. Even with agile development methodologies, changing the way someone authenticates to an application is critical. Without the proper planning and testing, it has the potential to severely impact productivity.
```

> How long does it take to reach password-less?  The answer is "it depends". It depends on the organizational alignment of a password-less strategy. Top-down agreement that password-less is the organization's goal makes conversations much easier. Easier conversations means less time spent convincing people and more time spent moving forward toward the goal. Top-down agreement on password-less as a priority within the ranks of other on-going IT projects helps everyone understand how to prioritize existing projects. Agreeing on priorities should reduce and minimize manager and executive level escalations. After these organizational discussions, modern project management techniques are used to continue the password-less effort. The organization allocates resources based on the priority (after they agreed on the strategy). Those resources will:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How long does it take to become passwordless?  The answer is "it depends". It depends on the organizational alignment of a passwordless strategy. Top-down agreement that a passwordless environment is the organization's goal makes conversations much easier. Easier conversations means less time spent convincing people and more time spent moving forward toward the goal. Top-down agreement, as a priority within the ranks of other on-going IT projects, helps everyone understand how to prioritize existing projects. Agreeing on priorities should reduce and minimize manager and executive level escalations. After these organizational discussions, modern project management techniques are used to continue the passwordless effort. The organization allocates resources based on the priority (after they agreed on the strategy). Those resources will:
```

- work through the work personas
- organize and deploy user acceptance testing
- evaluate user acceptance testing results for user-visible password surfaces
- work with stakeholders to create solutions that mitigate user-visible password surfaces
- add the solution to the project backlog and prioritize against other projects
- deploy solution
- User acceptance testing to confirm the solution mitigates the user-visible password surface
- Repeat as needed

> Your organization's journey to password-less may take some time to get there. Counting the number of work personas and the number of applications is probably a good indicator of the investment. Hopefully, your organization is growing, which means that the list of personas and the list of applications is unlikely to shrink. If the work to go password-less today is *n*, then it is likely that to go password-less tomorrow is *n x 2* or perhaps more, *n x n*. Do not let the size or duration of the project be a distraction. As you progress through each work persona, the actions and tasks will become more familiar for you and your stakeholders. Scope the project to sizable, realistic phases, pick the correct work personas, and soon you will see parts of your organization transition to password-less.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your organization's journey to being passwordless may take some time. Counting the number of work personas and the number of applications is probably a good indicator of the investment. Hopefully, your organization is growing, which means that the list of personas and the list of applications is unlikely to shrink. If the work to go passwordless today is *n*, then it is likely that to go passwordless tomorrow is *n x 2* or perhaps more, *n x n*. Do not let the size or duration of the project be a distraction. As you progress through each work persona, the actions and tasks will become more familiar for you and your stakeholders. Scope the project to sizable, realistic phases, pick the correct work personas, and soon you will see parts of your organization transition to a passwordless state.
```

### Where to start?

> What is the best guidance for kicking off the journey to password-less?  You will want to show you management a proof of concept as soon as possible. Ideally, you want to show this at each step of your password-less journey. Keeping password-less top of mind and showing consistent progress keeps everyone focused.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What is the best guidance for kicking off the passwordless journey?  You will want to show you management a proof of concept as soon as possible. Ideally, you want to show this at each step of your passwordless journey. Keeping your passwordless strategy top of mind and showing consistent progress keeps everyone focused.
```

#### Work persona

> You begin with your work personas. These were part of your preparation process. They have a persona name, such as Abby Accounting II, or any other naming convention your organization defined. That work persona includes a list of all the applications that Abby uses to perform her assigned duties in the accounting department. To start, you need to pick a work persona. This is the targeted work persona you will enable to climb the password-less steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You begin with your work personas. These were part of your preparation process. They have a persona name, such as Abby Accounting II, or any other naming convention your organization defined. That work persona includes a list of all the applications that Abby uses to perform her assigned duties in the accounting department. To start, you need to pick a work persona. This is the targeted work persona you will enable to climb the passwordless steps.
```

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > Avoid using any work personas from your IT department. This is probably the worst way to start the password-less journey. IT roles are very difficult and time consuming. IT workers typically have multiple credentials, run a multitude of scripts and custom applications, and are the worst offenders of password usage. It is better to save these work personas for the middle or end of your journey.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Avoid using any work personas from your IT department. This is probably the worst way to start the passwordless journey. IT roles are very difficult and time consuming. IT workers typically have multiple credentials, run a multitude of scripts and custom applications, and are the worst offenders of password usage. It is better to save these work personas for the middle or end of your journey.
```

> Review your collection of work personas. Early in your password-less journey, identify personas that have the fewest applications. These work personas could represent an entire department or two. These are the perfect work personas for your proof-of-concept or pilot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Review your collection of work personas. Early in your passwordless journey, identify personas that have the fewest applications. These work personas could represent an entire department or two. These are the perfect work personas for your proof-of-concept or pilot.
```

> Most organizations host their proof of concept in a test lab or environment. To do that with password-less may be more challenging and take more time. To test in a lab, you must first duplicate the environment of the targeted persona. This could be a few days or several weeks depending on the complexity of targeted work persona.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most organizations host their proof of concept in a test lab or environment. To do that with a password-free strategy may be more challenging and take more time. To test in a lab, you must first duplicate the environment of the targeted persona. This could be a few days or several weeks depending on the complexity of targeted work persona.
```

> You will want to balance testing in a lab with providing results to management quickly. Continuing to show forward progress on your password-less journey is always good thing. If there are ways you can test in production with low or now risk, that may be advantageous to your time line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will want to balance testing in a lab with providing results to management quickly. Continuing to show forward progress on your password-less journey is always a good thing. If there are ways you can test in production with low or now risk, that may be advantageous to your timeline.
```

> Most organizations host their proof of concept in a test lab or environment. To do that with a password-free strategy may be more challenging and take more time. To test in a lab, you must first duplicate the environment of the targeted persona. This could take a few days or several weeks, depending on the complexity of targeted work persona.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most organizations host their proof of concept in a test lab or environment. To do that with a password-free strategy may be more challenging and take more time. To test in a lab, you must first duplicate the environment of the targeted persona. This could take a few days or several weeks, depending on the complexity of the targeted work persona.
```

## The Process

> The journey to password-less is to take each work persona through each password-less step. In the beginning, we encourage working with one persona at a time to ensure team members and stakeholders are familiar with the process. Once comfortable with the process, you can cover as many work personas in parallel as resources allow. The process looks something like

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The journey to password-less is to take each work persona through each password-less step. In the beginning, we encourage working with one persona at a time to ensure team members and stakeholders are familiar with the process. Once comfortable with the process, you can cover as many work personas in parallel as resources allow. The process looks something like this:
```

> The journey to password-less is to take each work persona through each password-less step. In the beginning, we encourage working with one persona at a time to ensure team members and stakeholders are familiar with the process. Once comfortable with the process, you can cover as many work personas in parallel as resources allow. The process looks something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The journey to being passwordless is to take each work persona through each passwordless step. In the beginning, we encourage working with one persona at a time to ensure team members and stakeholders are familiar with the process. Once comfortable with the process, you can cover as many work personas in parallel as resources allow. The process looks something like this:
```

> 1. Password-less replacement offering (Step 1)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Passwordless replacement offering (Step 1)
```

   1. Identify test users representing the targeted work persona.
   2. Deploy Windows Hello for Business to test users.
   3. Validate that passwords and Windows Hello for Business work.
2. Reduce User-visible Password Surface (Step 2)
   1. Survey test user workflow for password usage.
   2. Identify password usage and plan, develop, and deploy password mitigations.
   3. Repeat until all user password usage is mitigated.
   4. Remove password capabilities from Windows.
   5. Validate that **none of the workflows** need passwords.
3. Transition into a password-less (Step 3)
   1. Awareness campaign and user education.

>    2. Including remaining users that fit the work persona.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   2. Include remaining users that fit the work persona.
```

   3. Validate that **none of the users** of the work personas need passwords.
   4. Configure user accounts to disallow password authentication.

After successfully moving a work persona to password-less, you can prioritize the remaining work personas, and repeat the process.

> ### Password-less replacement offering (Step 1)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Passwordless replacement offering (Step 1)
```

> The first step to password-less is providing an alternative to passwords. Windows 10 provides an affordable and easy in-box alternative to passwords, Windows Hello for Business, a strong, two-factor authentication to Azure Active Directory and Active Directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first step to password freedom is providing an alternative to passwords. Windows 10 provides an affordable and easy in-box alternative to passwords, Windows Hello for Business, a strong, two-factor authentication to Azure Active Directory and Active Directory.
```

#### Identify test users that represent the targeted work persona

> A successful transition to password-less heavily relies on user acceptance testing. It is impossible for you to know how every work persona goes about their day-to-day activities, or to accurately validate them. You need to enlist the help of users that fit the targeted work persona. You only need a few users from the targeted work persona. As you cycle through step 2, you may want to change a few of the users (or add a few) as part of your validation process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A successful transition relies on user acceptance testing. It is impossible for you to know how every work persona goes about their day-to-day activities, or to accurately validate them. You need to enlist the help of users that fit the targeted work persona. You only need a few users from the targeted work persona. As you cycle through step 2, you may want to change a few of the users (or add a few) as part of your validation process.
```

> [!NOTE]
> There are many different ways to connect a device to Azure. Deployments may vary based on how the device is joined to Azure Active Directory. Review your planning guide and deployment guide to ensure additional infrastructure is not needed for an additional Azure joined devices.

#### Validate that passwords and Windows Hello for Business work
In this first step, passwords and Windows Hello for Business must coexist. You want to validate that while your targeted work personas can sign in and unlock using Windows Hello for Business, but they can also sign-in, unlock, and use passwords as needed. Reducing the user-visible password surface too soon can create frustration and confusion with your targeted user personas.

### Reduce User-visible Password Surface (Step 2)
Before you move to step 2, ensure you have:
- selected your targeted work persona.
- identified your test users who represent the targeted work persona.
- deployed Windows Hello for Business to test users.
- validated passwords and Windows Hello for Business both work for the test users.

#### Survey test user workflow for password usage

> Now is the time to learn more about the targeted work persona. You have a list of applications they use, but you do not know what, why, when, and how frequently. This information is important as your further your progress through step 2.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now is the time to learn more about the targeted work persona. You have a list of applications they use, but you do not know what, why, when, and how frequently. This information is important as you further your progress through step 2.
```

Some organizations will empower their users to write this information while some may insist on having a member of the IT department shadow them. An objective viewer may notice a password prompt that the user overlooks simply because of muscle memory. As previously mentioned, this information is critical. You could miss one password prompt which could delay the transition to password-less.

#### Identify password usage and plan, develop, and deploy password mitigations
Your test users have provided you valuable information that describes the how, what, why and when they use a password. It is now time for your team to identify each of these password use cases and understand why the user must use a password.

Create a master list of the scenarios. Each scenario should have a clear problem statement. Name the scenario with a one-sentence summary of the problem statement. Include in the scenario the results of your team's investigation as to why the user is prompted by a password. Include relevant, but accurate details. If its policy or procedure driven, then include the name and section of the policy that dictates why the workflow uses a password.

> Keep in mind your test users will not uncover all scenarios. Some scenarios you will need to force on your users because they low percentage scenarios. Remember to include scenarios like:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Keep in mind your test users will not uncover all scenarios. Some scenarios you will need to force on your users because they are low percentage scenarios. Remember to include scenarios like:
```

> Create a master list of the scenarios. Each scenario should have a clear problem statement. Name the scenario with a one-sentence summary of the problem statement. Include in the scenario the results of your team's investigation as to why the user is prompted by a password. Include relevant, but accurate details. If its policy or procedure driven, then include the name and section of the policy that dictates why the workflow uses a password.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a master list of the scenarios. Each scenario should have a clear problem statement. Name the scenario with a one-sentence summary of the problem statement. Include in the scenario the results of your team's investigation as to why the user is prompted by a password. Include relevant, but accurate details. If it is policy or procedure driven, then include the name and section of the policy that dictates why the workflow uses a password.
```

- Provisioning a new brand new user without a password.
- Users who forget the PIN or other remediation flows when the strong credential is unusable.

> Next, review your master list of scenarios. You can start with the workflows that are dictated by process or policy or, you can begin with workflows that need technical solutions-- whichever of the two is easier or quicker. This will certainly vary by organization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, review your master list of scenarios. You can start with the workflows that are dictated by process or policy or, you can begin with workflows that need technical solutions - whichever of the two is easier or quicker. This will certainly vary by organization.
```

> Next, review your master list of scenarios. You can start with the workflows that are dictated by process or policy or, you can begin with workflows that need technical solutions - whichever of the two is easier or quicker. This will certainly vary by organization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, review your master list of scenarios. You can start with the workflows that are dictated by process or policy, or you can begin with workflows that need technical solutions - whichever of the two is easier or quicker. This will certainly vary by organization.
```

> Start mitigating password usages based on the workflows of your targeted personas. Document the mitigation as a solution to your scenario. Don't worry about the implementation details for the solution. A overview of the changes needed to reduce the password usages is all you need. If there are technical changes needed either infrastructure or code changes-- the exact details will likely be included in the project documentation. However your organization tracks projects, create a new project in that system. Associate your scenario to that project and start the processes needed to get that project funded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Start mitigating password usages based on the workflows of your targeted personas. Document the mitigation as a solution to your scenario. Don't worry about the implementation details for the solution. An overview of the changes needed to reduce the password usages is all you need. If there are technical changes needed, either infrastructure or code changes, the exact details will likely be included in the project documentation. However your organization tracks projects, create a new project in that system. Associate your scenario to that project and start the processes needed to get that project funded.
```

> Mitigating password usage with applications is one or the more challenging obstacle in the journey to password-less. If your organization develops the application, then you are in better shape the common-off-the-shelf software (COTS).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mitigating password usage with applications is one or the more challenging obstacle in the passwordless journey. If your organization develops the application, then you are in better shape the common-off-the-shelf software (COTS).
```

> Mitigating password usage with applications is one or the more challenging obstacle in the passwordless journey. If your organization develops the application, then you are in better shape the common-off-the-shelf software (COTS).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Mitigating password usage with applications is one of the more challenging obstacles in the passwordless journey. If your organization develops the application, then you are in better shape the common-off-the-shelf software (COTS).
```

> The ideal mitigation for applications that prompt the user for a password is to enable those enable those applications to use an existing authenticated identity, such as Azure Active Directory or Active Directory. Work with the applications vendors to have them add support for Azure identities. For on-premises applications, have the application use Windows integrated authentication. The goal for your users should be a seamless single sign-on experience where each user authenticates once-- when they sign-in to Windows. Use this same strategy for applications that store their own identities in their own databases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ideal mitigation for applications that prompt the user for a password is to enable those applications to use an existing authenticated identity, such as Azure Active Directory or Active Directory. Work with the applications vendors to have them add support for Azure identities. For on-premises applications, have the application use Windows integrated authentication. The goal for your users should be a seamless single sign-on experience where each user authenticates once when they sign-in to Windows. Use this same strategy for applications that store their own identities in their own databases.
```

Each scenario on your master list should now have a problem statement, an investigation as to why the password was used, and a mitigation plan on how to make the password usage go away. Armed with this data, one-by-one, close the gaps on user-visible passwords. Change policies and procedures as needed, make infrastructure changes where possible. Convert in-house applications to use federated identities or Windows integrated authentication. Work with third-party software vendors to update their software to support federated identities or Windows integrated authentication.

#### Repeat until all user password usage is mitigated

> Some or all of your mitigations are in place. You need to validate your solutions have solved their problem statements. This is where you rely on your test users. You want to keep a good portion of your first test users, but this is a good opportunity to replace a few or add a few. Survey test users workflow for password usage. If all goes well, you have closed most or all the gaps. A few are likely to remain. Evaluate your solutions and what went wrong, change your solution as needed until you reach a solution that removes your user's need to type a password. If your stuck, others might be too. Use the forums from various sources or your network of IT colleague to describe your problem and see how others are solving it. If your out of options, contact Microsoft for assistance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some or all of your mitigations are in place. You need to validate that your solutions have solved their problem statements. This is where you rely on your test users. You want to keep a good portion of your first test users, but this is a good opportunity to replace a few or add a few. Survey test users workflow for password usage. If all goes well, you have closed most or all of the gaps. A few are likely to remain. Evaluate your solutions and what went wrong, change your solution as needed until you reach a solution that removes your user's need to type a password. If you are stuck, others might be too. Use the forums from various sources or your network of IT colleagues to describe your problem and see how others are solving it. If you are out of options, contact Microsoft for assistance.
```

#### Remove password capabilities from Windows

> You believe you have mitigates all the password usage for the targeted work persona. Now comes the true test-- configure Windows so the user cannot use a password.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You believe you have mitigated all the password usage for the targeted work persona. Now comes the true test - configure Windows so the user cannot use a password.
```

ms.topic: article
localizationpriority: medium
ms.date: 08/20/2018
ms.reviewer:
---

> # Password-less Strategy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Passwordless Strategy
```

Reviewer: see also line 21 - I couldn't edit that line, I would suggest "Four steps to password freedom" or "Lose passwords in four steps"

Reviewer: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/p/passwordless

Author: Thanks, I was unaware of what the correct technical term should look like in this case.

The policy name for these operating systems is **Interactive logon: Require Windows Hello for Business or smart card**.
![securityPolicyRSAT](images/passwordless/00-updatedsecuritypolicytext.png)

> When you enables this security policy setting, Windows prevents users from signing in or unlocking with a password. The password credential provider remains visible to the user. If a user tries to use a password, Windows informs the user they must use Windows Hello for Business or a smart card.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you enable this security policy setting, Windows prevents users from signing in or unlocking with a password. The password credential provider remains visible to the user. If a user tries to use a password, Windows informs the user they must use Windows Hello for Business or a smart card.
```

![HideCredProvPolicy2](images/passwordless/01-hidecredprov.png)

Excluding the password credential provider hides the password credential provider from Windows and any application that attempts to load it. This prevents the user from entering a password using the credential provider. However, this does not prevent applications from creating their own password collection dialogs and prompting the user for a password using custom dialogs.

#### Validate that none of the workflows need passwords
This is the big moment. You have identified password usage, developed solutions to mitigate password usage, and have removed or disabled password usage from Windows. In this configuration, your users will not be able to use a password. Users will be blocked if any of their workflows ask them for a password. Ideally, your test users should be able to complete all the work flows of the targeted work persona without any password usage. Do not forget those low percentage work flows, such as provisioning a new user or a user that forgot their PIN or cannot use their strong credential. Ensure those scenarios are validated as well.

> ### Transition into a password-less deployment (Step 3)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Transition into a passwordless deployment (Step 3)
```

> Congratulations!  You are ready to transition one or more portions of your organization to a password-less deployment. You have validated the targeted work-persona is ready to go where the user no longer needs to know or use their password. You are just few steps away from declaring success.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Congratulations!  You are ready to transition one or more portions of your organization to a password-less deployment. You have validated that the targeted work-persona is ready to go where the user no longer needs to know or use their password. You are just a few steps away from declaring success.
```

> Congratulations!  You are ready to transition one or more portions of your organization to a password-less deployment. You have validated that the targeted work persona is ready to go where the user no longer needs to know or use their password. You are just a few steps away from declaring success.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Congratulations!  You are ready to transition one or more portions of your organization to a passwordless deployment. You have validated that the targeted work persona is ready to go where the user no longer needs to know or use their password. You are just a few steps away from declaring success.
```

#### Awareness and user education
In this last step, you are going to include the remaining users that fit the targeted work persona to the wonderful world of password-less. Before you do this, you want to invest in an awareness campaign.

> An awareness campaign is introduces the users to the new way of authenticating to their device, such as using Windows Hello for Business. The idea of the campaign is to positively promote the change to the users in advance. Explain  the value and why your company is changing. The campaign should provide dates and encourage questions and feedback. This campaign can coincide user education, where you can show the users the changes and, if your environment allows, enable the users to try the experience out.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An awareness campaign introduces the users to the new way of authenticating to their device, such as using Windows Hello for Business. The idea of the campaign is to positively promote the change to the users in advance. Explain  the value and why your company is changing. The campaign should provide dates and encourage questions and feedback. This campaign can coincide with user education, where you can show the users the changes and, if your environment allows, enable the users to try out the experience.
```

#### Including remaining users that fit the work persona
You have implemented the awareness campaign for the targeted users. These users are informed and ready to transition to password-less. Add the remaining users that match the targeted work persona to your deployment.

> #### Validate that none of the users of the work personas need passwords

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Validate that none of the users of the work personas needs passwords
```

The policy name for these operating systems is **Interactive logon: Require Windows Hello for Business or smart card**.
![securityPolicyRSAT](images/passwordless/00-updatedsecuritypolicytext.png)

When you enable this security policy setting, Windows prevents users from signing in or unlocking with a password. The password credential provider remains visible to the user. If a user tries to use a password, Windows informs the user they must use Windows Hello for Business or a smart card.

#### Excluding the password credential provider

> You can use Group Policy to deploy an administrative template policy settings to the computer. This policy settings is found under **Computer Configuration > Policies > Administrative Templates > Logon**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use Group Policy to deploy an administrative template policy settings to the computer. These policy settings are found under **Computer Configuration > Policies > Administrative Templates > Logon**
```

![HideCredProvPolicy](images/passwordless/00-hidecredprov.png)

The name of the policy setting is **Exclude credential providers**. The value to enter in the policy to hide the password credential provider is **60b78e88-ead8-445c-9cfd-0b87f74ea6cd**.
![HideCredProvPolicy2](images/passwordless/01-hidecredprov.png)

Excluding the password credential provider hides the password credential provider from Windows and any application that attempts to load it. This prevents the user from entering a password using the credential provider. However, this does not prevent applications from creating their own password collection dialogs and prompting the user for a password using custom dialogs.

> #### Validate that none of the workflows need passwords

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Validate that none of the workflows needs passwords
```

Author: Fair enough, although arguably, both can be valid. I presume the singular makes more sense here.
(it is a myth that **none** always takes a singular verb)

- Is the outage a result of a misconfiguration?
- Is the outage a overlooked gap from step 2?

> Each organization's priority and severity will differ however most organizations consider work stoppages fairly significant. Your team should pre-define levels of priority and severity. With each of these levels, create service level agreements (SLAs) for each combination of severity and priority and hold everyone accountable to those agreements. Reactive planning enables people to spend more time on the issue and resolving it and less time on process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each organization's priority and severity will differ. However, most organizations consider work stoppages fairly significant. Your team should pre-define levels of priority and severity. With each of these levels, create service level agreements (SLAs) for each combination of severity and priority and hold everyone accountable to those agreements. Reactive planning enables people to spend more time on the issue and resolving it and less time on the process.
```

Author: I agree with splitting the sentence like you have done. However, I would have said that "most organizations consider stoppages to be of fairly significant importance". What do you think?

Author: ```suggestion
Each organization's priority and severity will differ. However, most organizations consider work stoppages to be fairly significant. Your team should predefine levels of priority and severity. With each of these levels, create service level agreements (SLAs) for each combination of severity and priority, and hold everyone accountable to those agreements. Reactive planning enables people to spend more time on the issue and resolving it, and less time on the process.
```

> Resolve the issues per your service level agreements. Higher severity items may require returning some or all of the user's password surface. Clearly this is not the end goal but, do not let this slow your password-less momentum. Refer to how you reduced the user's password surface in step 2 and progress forward to a solution, deploying that solution and validating.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Resolve the issues per your service level agreements. Higher severity items may require returning some or all of the user's password surface. Clearly this is not the end goal but, do not let this slow your password-less momentum. Refer to how you reduced the user's password surface in step 2 and progress forward to a solution, deploying that solution and validating it.
```

#### Configure user accounts to disallow password authentication.

> You transitioned all the users for the targeted work persona to a password-less environment and you have successfully validated all their workflows. The last step to complete the password-less transition is to remove the user's knowledge of the password and prevent the authenticating authority from accepting passwords.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You transitioned all the users for the targeted work persona to a passwordless environment and you have successfully validated all their workflows. The last step to complete the passwordless transition is to remove the user's knowledge of the password and prevent the authenticating authority from accepting passwords.
```

You can change the user's password to random data and prevent domain controllers from allowing users to use passwords for interactive sign-ins using an account configuration on the user object.

The account options on a user account includes an option -- **Smart card is required for interactive logon**, also known as (SCRIL).

> [!NOTE]
> Do not confuse the Interactive Logon security policy for SCRIL. Security policies are enforced on the client (locally). A user account configured for SCRIL is enforced at the domain controller.

![SCRIL setting on AD Users and Computers](images/passwordless/00-scril-dsa.png)
**SCRIL setting for a user on Active Directory Users and Computers.**

> When you configure an user account for SCRIL, Active Directory changes the affected user's password to a random 128 bits of data. Additionally, domain controllers hosting the user account do not allow the user to sign-in interactively with a password. Also, users will no longer be troubled with needing to change their password when it expires, because passwords for SCRIL users in domains with a Windows Server 2012 R2 or early domain functional level do not expire. The users is effectively password-less because:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you configure a user account for SCRIL, Active Directory changes the affected user's password to a random 128 bits of data. Additionally, domain controllers hosting the user account do not allow the user to sign-in interactively with a password. Also, users will no longer be troubled with needing to change their password when it expires, because passwords for SCRIL users in domains with a Windows Server 2012 R2 or early domain functional level do not expire. The users are effectively password-less because:
```

> When you configure a user account for SCRIL, Active Directory changes the affected user's password to a random 128 bits of data. Additionally, domain controllers hosting the user account do not allow the user to sign-in interactively with a password. Also, users will no longer be troubled with needing to change their password when it expires, because passwords for SCRIL users in domains with a Windows Server 2012 R2 or early domain functional level do not expire. The users are effectively password-less because:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you configure a user account for SCRIL, Active Directory changes the affected user's password to a random 128 bits of data. Additionally, domain controllers hosting the user account do not allow the user to sign-in interactively with a password. Also, users will no longer be troubled with needing to change their password when it expires, because passwords for SCRIL users in domains with a Windows Server 2012 R2 or early domain functional level do not expire. The users are effectively passwordless because:
```

> Windows Hello for Business was formerly known as Microsoft Passport.

##### Automatic password change for SCRIL configured users

> Domains configured for Windows Server 2016 domain functional level can further secure the unknown password for a SCRIL enabled users by configuring the domain to automatically change the password for SCRIL users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Domains configured for Windows Server 2016 domain functional level can further secure the unknown password for SCRIL-enabled users by configuring the domain to automatically change the password for SCRIL users.
```

> In this configuration, passwords for SCRIL configured users expired based on Active Directory password policy settings. When the SCRIL user authentication from a domain controller, the domain controller recognizes the password has expired, and automatically generates a new random 128 bit password for the user as part of the authentication. What is great about this feature is your users do not experience any change password notifications or experience any authentication outages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this configuration, passwords for SCRIL-configured users expire based on Active Directory password policy settings. When the SCRIL user authenticates from a domain controller, the domain controller recognizes the password has expired, and automatically generates a new random 128 bit password for the user as part of the authentication. What is great about this feature is your users do not experience any change password notifications or experience any authentication outages.
```

Author: I might go back at this line again later and shorten "or any authentication outages." to 'or authentication outages.'

![Rotate Password 2016](images/passwordless/02-rotate-scril-2016.png)

> [!NOTE]

> > Some components within Windows 10, such as Data Protection APIs and NTLM authentication, still need artifacts of a user possessing a password. This configuration provides interoperability with while reducing the usage surface while Microsoft continues to close the gaps to remove the password completely.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Some components within Windows 10, such as Data Protection APIs and NTLM authentication, still need artifacts of a user possessing a password. This configuration provides interoperability by reducing the usage surface while Microsoft continues to close the gaps to remove the password completely.
```

## The Road Ahead

> The information presented here is just the beginning. We will update this guide with improved tools, methods, and scenarios, like Azure AD joined and MDM managed environments. As we continue to invest in password-less, we would love to hear from you. Your feedback is important. Send us an email at [pwdless@microsoft.com](mailto:pwdless@microsoft.com?subject=Passwordless%20Feedback).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The information presented here is just the beginning. We will update this guide with improved tools, methods, and scenarios, like Azure AD joined and MDM managed environments. As we continue to invest in a passwordless future, we would love to hear from you. Your feedback is important. Send us an email at [pwdless@microsoft.com](mailto:pwdless@microsoft.com?subject=Passwordless%20Feedback).
```

> The information presented here is just the beginning. We will update this guide with improved tool and methods and scenarios, like Azure AD joined and MDM managed environments, As we continue to invest in password-less, we would love to hear from you. Your feedback is important. Send us an email at [pwdless@microsoft.com](mailto:pwdless@microsoft.com?subject=Passwordless%20Feedback).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The information presented here is just the beginning. We will update this guide with improved tool, methods, and scenarios, like Azure AD joined and MDM managed environments. As we continue to invest in password-less, we would love to hear from you. Your feedback is important. Send us an email at [pwdless@microsoft.com](mailto:pwdless@microsoft.com?subject=Passwordless%20Feedback).
```
